Let's do a different type of function.
Get rid of this stuff and focus on,
what if we would rather instead of
combining functions by running both and
then combining the results,
which is kind of the normal intuition
behind concatenating factors.
We can do is make a composition like
function composition as concatenation.
So I have like a thing where I want
to go to upper and exclaim, right?
And I just wanna like fold map that and
I want to combine.
I want it to do both of those things.
So let's do that.
And for that,
we're gonna make a type called Endo.
That was if anybody saw my
Snoop Dogg slide earlier,
but [LAUGH] we have Endo.empty.
All right, so what would that do?
That would provide me a function that
when I run it with my string hello,
I should get HELLO all capital.
It's got a first to operate and
then explain.
It;s just gonna run through a pipeline
of functions and new composition.
Now, the reason it's called
Endo which is weird is because
this only works with endomorphisms
meaning it only works from types a to a,
in this case string to string or
task to task or
whatever to whatever it has this have
the same type of input as output.
And the reason for
that is because now we know we can just
compose them without running into any type
problems where they don't compose [LAUGH].
So this just kinda skirts that and says,
okay, if they're always the type, same
type of input is output, we'll just thread
it through and they'll always compose.
Let's write Endo.
Doo doo doo doo doo doo.
And if we have time we'll
talk about one more.
But this should be fine for now.
So we have Endo, let's not worry
about mapping chain and anything.
In fact, you can't map Endo, endo is a
function from string to string or a day or
into int or
whatever it's always the same type.
If I tried to change the second type with
map if I returned my value in the map over
it then it would break everything I
would have it would not be Endo anymore.
So it is not a functor.
I do have to talk about
one thing after this.
Don't let me forget.
[LAUGH] We're talking about contra map and
contravariant functors.
So, we don't have map on Endo, but
we can say, just like the other ones we'll
say with Endo and x instead of running
both and concatenate the results.
I will run the other one and then run
mine with the result of the other one.
Cool.
We'll have to throw this
in a little list Wow.
[LAUGH] .List list from
immutable j s are extensions and
we'll foldMap down Endo,
we don't have Endo.empty,
what would Endo.empty look like?
We have an Endo, what's next?
X be Id, does that work?
So what happens?
[SOUND] Op, and I'm gonna show you
the result, but also it should say Endo,
it should have a string in it, right?
Do you do that?
There we go.
That looks better.
[LAUGH] All right, so we have a result.
And we'll fold map this thing down.
And then we'll run it.
Yeah, right down here.
And we'll console that log.
The result.
Don't know how to do this efficiently and
we get nothing.
Goodness, that's not good.
What's happening here?
So the original empty,
I'm suspecting is our problem.
Let's go ahead and focus on that.
So it takes an empty string original
Endo takes an empty string.
And then when we run it on this thing,
I think it ignores its argument right
here and just returns an empty string.
So perhaps, that was wrong and
we'll say empty takes this and
we'll see what happens there, okay.
That works.
I have to clarify this one and
come back to you because I'm getting
confused, but at least it's working.
So the point here is that we're
combining all these by composition.
And it kind of doesn't matter that we're
running the other one inside ours are ours
inside the other.
Like if we did it this way.
The order kinda doesn't matter.
But then we go back to our empty method,
right?
Where we do that I'm trying to make of
that's why empty takes no arguments.
That makes a lot of sense.
There we go.
So that clears that up.